Prove the Authenticity of the OCI Artifacts blog post (#1175)
fluxcd/website: content/en/blog/2022-10-04-prove-the-authenticity-of-the-oci-artifacts/index.md

---
author: developer-guy
date: 2022-10-11 12:30:00+00:00
title: Prove the Authenticity of the OCI Artifacts
description: "We'll talk about integration of the cosign tool, which is a tool for signing and verifying the given container images, blobs, etc, that we used to prove the authenticity of the OCI Artifacts we manage through the OCIRepository resources."
url: /blog/2022/10/prove-the-authenticity-of-the-oci-artifacts

> tags: [oci]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: [oci, security]
```

{{< imgproc flux-protects-you-against-ssca-featured Resize 800x >}}
{{< /imgproc >}}

Let's start with a brief historical explanation of how we got to this point. It all started with the following sentence:

{{% pageinfo color="primary" %}}
Flux should be able to distribute and reconcile Kubernetes configuration packaged as OCI artifacts.

> _[RFC-0003: Flux OCI support for Kubernetes manifests](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/tree/main/rfcs/0003-kubernetes-oci)_.
{{% /pageinfo %}}

From then on, the Flux community worked hard and brought this feature with [Flux v0.32](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/releases/tag/v0.32.0). So with that, you can store and distribute various sources such as Kubernetes manifests, Kustomize overlays, and Terraform modules as OCI (Open Container Initiative) artifacts with [Flux CLI](/flux/cmd/flux_push_artifact/#flux-push-artifact) and tell Flux to reconcile your sources that are stored in OCI Artifacts, and Flux will do that for you. 🕺🏻

But this only covered the first stage of the entire implementation. There is more than that. ☝️

> One of the most exciting features of this RFC is the [verification of artifacts](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/tree/main/rfcs/0003-kubernetes-oci#verify-artifacts). But why, what is it, is it really necessary or just a hype thing? This is a long topic that we need to discuss.,Suppose you keep your sources that you want Flux to reconcile as an OCI Artifacts, and you push them into one of your favorite OCI logbooks. But how can you be one hundred percent sure that the resources that Flux reconciles are the same as the resources that you send to the OCI registry? This is where the verification of artifacts comes into play. But, how can we do that? 🤔

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the most exciting features of this RFC is the [verification of artifacts](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/tree/main/rfcs/0003-kubernetes-oci#verify-artifacts). But why, what is it, is it really necessary or just a hype thing? This is a long topic that we need to discuss. Suppose you store the cluster desired state as OCI artifacts in a container registry. How can you be one hundred percent sure that the resources that Flux reconciles are the same as the resources that you've pushed to the OCI registry? This is where the verification of artifacts comes into play. But, how can we do that? 🤔
```

---
author: developer-guy
date: 2022-10-11 12:30:00+00:00
title: Prove the Authenticity of the OCI Artifacts
description: "We'll talk about integration of the cosign tool, which is a tool for signing and verifying the given container images, blobs, etc, that we used to prove the authenticity of the OCI Artifacts we manage through the OCIRepository resources."
url: /blog/2022/10/prove-the-authenticity-of-the-oci-artifacts
tags: [oci]
resources:
- src: "**.{png}"
  title: "Image #:counter"
---

> Software supply chain attacks are one of the most critical risks threatening today's software and have begun to collapse like a dark cloud over the software industry. The Flux community is one of those communities that always takes precautions against these threats. While we primarily provided the measures we mentioned for our products, we also provided articles that raised users' awareness of what we were doing to protect against these threats. You can find all Flux's security articles [here](/tags/security/). I strongly recommend you to read these articles. And we did not stop here, we also introduced features in our products that can protect users against these threats, and today we will talk about one of these features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Software supply chain attacks are one of the most critical risks threatening today's software and have begun to collapse like a dark cloud over the software industry. For the Flux family of projects we are taking precautions against these threats. Apart from implementing security features and best practices, it is important to us to educate our users. You can find all Flux's security articles [here](/tags/security/). Today we will talk about a new security feature.
```

Simplified the language somewhat and removed duplication. To the best of my knowledge we are also not using the term *product* for our OSS projects.

{{< imgproc flux-protects-you-against-ssca-featured Resize 800x >}}
{{< /imgproc >}}

Let's start with a brief historical explanation of how we got to this point. It all started with the following sentence:

{{% pageinfo color="primary" %}}
Flux should be able to distribute and reconcile Kubernetes configuration packaged as OCI artifacts.

> _[RFC-0003: Flux OCI support for Kubernetes manifests](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/tree/main/rfcs/0003-kubernetes-oci)_.
{{% /pageinfo %}}

From then on, the Flux community worked hard and brought this feature with [Flux v0.32](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/releases/tag/v0.32.0). So with that, you can store and distribute various sources such as Kubernetes manifests, Kustomize overlays, and Terraform modules as OCI (Open Container Initiative) artifacts with [Flux CLI](/flux/cmd/flux_push_artifact/#flux-push-artifact) and tell Flux to reconcile your sources that are stored in OCI Artifacts, and Flux will do that for you. 🕺🏻

But this only covered the first stage of the entire implementation. There is more than that. ☝️

> One of the most exciting features of this RFC is the [verification of artifacts](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/tree/main/rfcs/0003-kubernetes-oci#verify-artifacts). But why, what is it, is it really necessary or just a hype thing? This is a long topic that we need to discuss, though, but in its simplest form, suppose you keep your sources that you want Flux to reconcile as an OCI Work, and you push them into one of your favorite OCI logbooks and tell Flux to reconcile them, and Flux does it. But how can you be one hundred percent sure that the resources that Flux reconciles are the same as the resources that you send to the OCI registry? This is where the verification of artifacts comes into play. But, how can we do that and that's another question? 🤔

Reviewer: Is "OCI Work" a term that is used?

Author: my bad, it should be "OCI Artifacts" 🤦

> One of the most exciting features of this RFC is the [verification of artifacts](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/tree/main/rfcs/0003-kubernetes-oci#verify-artifacts). But why, what is it, is it really necessary or just a hype thing? This is a long topic that we need to discuss, though, but in its simplest form, suppose you keep your sources that you want Flux to reconcile as an OCI Work, and you push them into one of your favorite OCI logbooks and tell Flux to reconcile them, and Flux does it. But how can you be one hundred percent sure that the resources that Flux reconciles are the same as the resources that you send to the OCI registry? This is where the verification of artifacts comes into play. But, how can we do that and that's another question? 🤔

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the most exciting features of this RFC is the [verification of artifacts](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/tree/main/rfcs/0003-kubernetes-oci#verify-artifacts). But why, what is it, is it really necessary or just a hype thing? This is a long topic that we need to discuss.,Suppose you keep your sources that you want Flux to reconcile as an OCI Work, and you push them into one of your favorite OCI logbooks. But how can you be one hundred percent sure that the resources that Flux reconciles are the same as the resources that you send to the OCI registry? This is where the verification of artifacts comes into play. But, how can we do that? 🤔
```

> Thanks to the [Sigstore](https://www.sigstore.dev) community, they provide a set of services and tools that can make that signing and verification process easier for everyone. One of the tools that they provide is [cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/overview) which is a tool for container signing, verification, and storage in an OCI registry and this is the tool we will benefit from to help people to verify the authenticity of the OCI Artifacts in Flux and I'm super excited to announce that starting with [v0.35](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/releases/tag/v0.35.0), Flux comes with support for verifying OCI artifacts signed with Sigstore Cosign. Of course, this features takes its place it the official documentation of Flux, you can reach out to it from [here](flux/cheatsheets/oci-artifacts/#signing-and-verification).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to the [Sigstore](https://www.sigstore.dev) community we have a great set of services and tools for signing and verifying authenticity. One of the tools is [cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/overview) which can be used for container signing, verification, and storage in an OCI registry. We will use it to verify the authenticity of the OCI Artifacts in Flux. Starting with [v0.35](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/releases/tag/v0.35.0), Flux comes with support for verifying OCI artifacts signed with Sigstore Cosign. Documentation for setting it up can be found [here](flux/cheatsheets/oci-artifacts/#signing-and-verification).
```

The talk is enough ! Let's jump right into the details of how we can actually use it.

> Today, we'll be deploying [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/docs/) project by storing its manifests in OCI registry packaged as an OCI Artifacts, thanks to _Flux CLI_, then we are going to sign it with _cosign_ tool and configure Flux to verify the artifacts’ signatures before they are downloaded and reconciled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will deploy [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/docs/) by storing its manifests in OCI registry packaged as an OCI Artifacts, using the _Flux CLI_. Then we are going to sign it with _cosign_ and configure Flux to verify the artifacts’ signatures before they are downloaded and reconciled.
```

> We should have three things to complete this demo;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need three things to complete this demo;
```

* _cosign_ CLI
  * <https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation/>
* A Kubernetes cluster
  * <https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/#installation-and-usage>
* _Flux_ CLI
  * <https://fluxcd.io/flux/cmd/>

Let's start by creating a simple Kubernetes cluster:

```shell
kind create cluster
```

> Let's install Flux on it, and I'll not go into the details of the installation process, you might use the [installation page](/flux/installation/) of Flux to get more details about it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's install Flux on it - if you need to use other options, check out the [installation page](/flux/installation/).
```

cd flux-cosign-demo
```

Let's create a secret with the GitHub token:

```shell
$ flux create secret oci ghcr-auth \
  --url=ghcr.io \
  --username=${GITHUB_USER} \
  --password=${GITHUB_TOKEN}
► oci secret 'ghcr-auth' created in 'flux-system' namespace
```

Configure Flux to pull the cert-manager artifact, verify its signature and apply its contents:

```shell
cat << EOF | tee ./clusters/my-cluster/cert-manager-sync.yaml
apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
kind: OCIRepository
metadata:
  name: cert-manager
  namespace: flux-system
spec:
  interval: 5m
  url: oci://ghcr.io/${GITHUB_USER}/manifests/cert-manager
  ref:
    semver: "*"
  secretRef:
    name: ghcr-auth
  verify:
    provider: cosign
    secretRef:
      name: cosign-pub
---
apiVersion: kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
kind: Kustomization
metadata:
  name: cert-manager
  namespace: flux-system
spec:
  interval: 1h
  timeout: 5m
  sourceRef:
    kind: OCIRepository
    name: cert-manager
  path: "."
  prune: true
  wait: true
EOF
```

Let's commit and push these changes:

```shell
git add .
git commit -m"Add cert-manager OCIRepository and Kustomization"
git push
```

> then, just wait couple of seconds for Flux to apply these changes, then let's check the status of them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After couple of seconds for Flux will have applied these changes. Now let's check the status of them:
```

flux-system     main/14f1e66                                                            False           True    Applied revision: main/14f1e66 
```

For _OCIRepository_ resources:

```shell
$ flux get sources oci
NAME            REVISION                                                                SUSPENDED       READY   MESSAGE                                        
cert-manager    v1.9.1/d1fb0442865148a4e9b4c3431c71d8e44af56c3eb658ea495c5ec48d48c6638b False           True    stored artifact for digest 'v1.9.1/d1fb0442865148a4e9b4c3431c71d8e44af56c3eb658ea495c5ec48d48c6638b'
```

If you see the status of the _OCIRepository_ is `True`, it means that Flux has successfully verified the signature of the container image. Because Flux adds a condition with the following attributes to the OCIRepository’s `.status.conditions`:

* type: SourceVerified
* status: "True"
* reason: Succeeded

If the verification fails, Flux will set the `SourceVerified` status to `False` and will not fetch the artifact contents from the registry. If you see the status of the _Kustomization_ is `True`, it means that Flux has successfully applied the manifests that are stored in the container image.

> Lets check the status of the _cert-manager_ deployment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's check the status of the _cert-manager_ deployment:
```

```shell
$ kubectl get pods --namespace cert-manager
NAME                                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
cert-manager-cainjector-857ff8f7cb-l469h   1/1     Running   0          76s
cert-manager-d58554549-9fbgj               1/1     Running   0          76s
cert-manager-webhook-76fdf7c485-9v82g      1/1     Running   0          76s
```

## Furthermore

As we can store _Helm Charts_ in OCI registries with the release of Helm [v3.8.0](https://helm.sh/blog/storing-charts-in-oci/) which means that we can also sign them with _cosign_ and verify them with Flux. The Flux community is already working on it and want to add support for verifying the Helm charts stored in OCI registries as OCI Artifacts in the next releases of Flux. You can follow the progress of this feature in the following issue: [fluxcd/source-controller#914](https://github.com/fluxcd/source-controller/issues/914).

> The Sigstore community is aware of the risks and the toil of managing public/private key pairs, so cosign offers another mode for signing and verification called [Keyless](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/blob/main/KEYLESS.md), which do not require managing any keys manually. Flux also supports that. If you omit the `.verify.secretRef` field, Flux will try to verify the signature using the Keyless mode. Its worth mentioning keyless verification is an experimental feature, using custom root CAs or self-hosted Rekor instances are not currently supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sigstore community is aware of the risks and the toil of managing public/private key pairs, so cosign offers another mode for signing and verification called [Keyless](https://github.com/sigstore/cosign/blob/main/KEYLESS.md), which do not require managing any keys manually. Flux also supports that. If you omit the `.verify.secretRef` field, Flux will try to verify the signature using the Keyless mode. It's worth mentioning keyless verification is an experimental feature, using custom root CAs or self-hosted Rekor instances are currently not supported.
```

url: /blog/2022/10/prove-the-authenticity-of-the-oci-artifacts
tags: [oci]
resources:
- src: "**.{png}"
  title: "Image #:counter"
---

Software supply chain attacks are one of the most critical risks threatening today's software and have begun to collapse like a dark cloud over the software industry. The Flux community is one of those communities that always takes precautions against these threats. While they primarily provided the measures I mentioned for their products, they also provided articles that raised users' awareness of what they were doing to protect against these threats. You can find all Flux's security articles [here](/tags/security/). I strongly recommend you to read these articles. And they did not stop here, they also introduced features in their products that can protect users against these threats, and today we will talk about one of these features.

{{< imgproc flux-protects-you-against-ssca-featured Resize 800x >}}
{{< /imgproc >}}

Let's start with a brief historical explanation of how we got to this point. It all started with the following sentence:

> {{% pageinfo color="primary" %}}
> Flux should be able to distribute and reconcile Kubernetes configuration packaged as OCI artifacts.
> {{% /pageinfo %}}
> 
> > _[RFC-0003: Flux OCI support for Kubernetes manifests](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/tree/main/rfcs/0003-kubernetes-oci)_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% pageinfo color="primary" %}}
Flux should be able to distribute and reconcile Kubernetes configuration packaged as OCI artifacts.

> _[RFC-0003: Flux OCI support for Kubernetes manifests](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/tree/main/rfcs/0003-kubernetes-oci)_.
{{% /pageinfo %}}
```

Reviewer: To me it looks a bit nicer this way. Just a suggestion.

We should have three things to complete this demo;

* _cosign_ CLI
  * <https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation/>
* A Kubernetes cluster
  * <https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/#installation-and-usage>
* _Flux_ CLI
  * <https://fluxcd.io/flux/cmd/>

Let's start by creating a simple Kubernetes cluster:

```shell
kind create cluster
```

Let's install Flux on it, and I'll not go into the details of the installation process, you might use the [installation page](/flux/installation/) of Flux to get more details about it.

```shell
export GITHUB_USER=developer-guy
export GITHUB_TOKEN=$GITHUB_TOKEN

flux bootstrap github \
  --owner=$GITHUB_USER \
  --repository=flux-gotk \
  --branch=main \
  --path=./clusters/my-cluster \
  --personal
```

> ⚠️ Note: Don’t forget to change the values with your own details!

First we download the cert-manager install manifests from GitHub:

```shell
curl -sSLO https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.9.1/cert-manager.yaml
```

> <https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/tag/v1.9.1>

Next we push the manifests to GitHub container registry with _Flux CLI_:

```shell

> mkdir -p ./manifests
> cp cert-manager.yaml ./manifests
> $ flux push artifact oci://ghcr.io/$GITHUB_USER/manifests/cert-manager:v1.9.1 \
>   --path="./manifests" \
>   --source="https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager.git" \
>   --revision="4486c01f726f17d2790a8a563ae6bc6e98465505"
> ► pushing artifact to ghcr.io/developer-guy/manifests/cert-manager:v1.9.1
> ► pushing artifact to ghcr.io/developer-guy/manifests/cert-manager:v1.9.1
> ✔ artifact successfully pushed to ghcr.io/developer-guy/manifests/cert-manager@sha256:d1fb0442865148a4e9b4c3431c71d8e44af56c3eb658ea495c5ec48d48c6638b

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
mkdir -p ./manifests
cp cert-manager.yaml ./manifests
$ flux push artifact oci://ghcr.io/$GITHUB_USER/manifests/cert-manager:v1.9.1 \
  --path="./manifests" \
  --source="https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager.git" \
  --revision="v1.9.1/4486c01f726f17d2790a8a563ae6bc6e98465505"
► pushing artifact to ghcr.io/developer-guy/manifests/cert-manager:v1.9.1
✔ artifact successfully pushed to ghcr.io/developer-guy/manifests/cert-manager@sha256:d1fb0442865148a4e9b4c3431c71d8e44af56c3eb658ea495c5ec48d48c6638b
```

```

Before signing the OCI artifact with Cosign, we need to create a set of key pairs, a public and private one:

```shell
cosign generate-key-pair
```

> This command above outputs two files to disk: `cosign.pub` and `cosign.key`. The cosign.pub file is the public key and the cosign.key file is the private key. You can use the cosign.pub file to verify the container image and the cosign.key file to sign the container image.

> To let Flux to verify the signature of the container image, we should create a secret that contains the public key:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To let Flux to verify the signature of the OCI artifact, we should create a secret that contains the public key:
```

```shell
kubectl -n flux-system create secret generic cosign-pub \
  --from-file=cosign.pub=cosign.pub
```

Now, let's sign it:

```shell
$ cosign sign --key cosign.key ghcr.io/$GITHUB_USER/manifests/cert-manager:v1.9.1
Enter password for private key:
Pushing signature to: ghcr.io/developer-guy/manifests/cert-manager
```

As we stick into the GitOps practices, we should create a file that contains the _OCIRepository_ resource, then commit and push those changes into the upstream repository that Flux watches for changes:

```shell

> git clone git@github.com:developer-guy/flux-gotk.git
> cd flux-gotk

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
git clone git@github.com:developer-guy/flux-cosign-demo.git
cd flux-cosign-demo
```

Please rename the repo to `flux-cosign-demo`

```

To pull artifacts in Kubernetes clusters, Flux can authenticate to container registries using image pull secrets or IAM role bindings to the source-controller service account.

```shell
$ flux create secret oci ghcr-auth \
  --url=ghcr.io \
  --username=${GITHUB_USER} \
  --password=${GITHUB_TOKEN}
► oci secret 'ghcr-auth' created in 'flux-system' namespace
```

> Let's create these two files, one is for _OCIRepository_ that is pointing to our OCI Artifact, the other is for _Kustomization_ that is pointing to the _OCIRepository_:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configure Flux to pull the cert-manager artifact, verify its signature and apply its contents:
```

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

---
author: developer-guy
date: 2022-10-04 11:30:00+00:00
title: Prove the Authenticity of the OCI Artifacts
description: "We'll talk about integration of the cosign tool, which is a tool for signing and verifying the given container images, blobs, etc, that we used to prove the authenticity of the OCI Artifacts we manage through the OCIRepository resources."
url: /blog/2022/10/prove-the-authenticity-of-the-oci-artifacts
tags: [oci]
resources:
- src: "**.{png}"
  title: "Image #:counter"
---

> Software supply chain attacks are one of the most critical risks threatening today's software, and software has begun to collapse like a dark cloud over the industry. The Flux community is one of those communities that always takes precautions against these threats. While they primarily provided the measures I mentioned for their products, they also provided articles that raised users' awareness of what they were doing to protect against these threats. You can find all Flux's security articles [here](https://fluxcd.io/tags/security/). I strongly recommend you to read these articles. And they did not stop here, they also introduced features in their products that can protect users against these threats, and today we will talk about one of these features.

Reviewer: Maybe explain what you mean by "software has begun to collapse like a dark cloud".

In this sentence there is also a bit of a mix of "I" and "we".

Author: There should be no "software" word in this sentence, and it's my mistake. I replace "I"s with "we"s.

Reviewer: Have you done this already?

As you are a Flux Project Member, you are very free to write this blog post from the perspective of the Flux Project and say "we". Might make it easier to follow than reading a mix of "I", "we" and "they".

> Software supply chain attacks are one of the most critical risks threatening today's software, and software has begun to collapse like a dark cloud over the industry. The Flux community is one of those communities that always takes precautions against these threats. While they primarily provided the measures I mentioned for their products, they also provided articles that raised users' awareness of what they were doing to protect against these threats. You can find all Flux's security articles [here](https://fluxcd.io/tags/security/). I strongly recommend you to read these articles. And they did not stop here, they also introduced features in their products that can protect users against these threats, and today we will talk about one of these features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Software supply chain attacks are one of the most critical risks threatening today's software, and software has begun to collapse like a dark cloud over the industry. The Flux community is one of those communities that always takes precautions against these threats. While they primarily provided the measures I mentioned for their products, they also provided articles that raised users' awareness of what they were doing to protect against these threats. You can find all Flux's security articles [here](/tags/security/). I strongly recommend you to read these articles. And they did not stop here, they also introduced features in their products that can protect users against these threats, and today we will talk about one of these features.
```

{{< imgproc flux-protects-you-against-ssca Resize 800x >}}
{{< /imgproc >}}

Let's start with a brief historical explanation of how we got to this point. It all started with the following sentence:

> <div style="text-align: center;">

Reviewer: Maybe use a https://www.docsy.dev/docs/adding-content/shortcodes/#pageinfo for this?

Flux should be able to distribute and reconcile Kubernetes configuration packaged as OCI artifacts.
</div>

> _[RFC-0003: Flux OCI support for Kubernetes manifests](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/tree/main/rfcs/0003-kubernetes-oci)_.

> From then on, the Flux community worked hard and brought this feature with [Flux v0.32](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/releases/tag/v0.32.0). So with that, you can store and distribute various sources such as Kubernetes manifests, Kustomize overlays, and Terraform modules as OCI (Open Container Initiative) artifacts with [Flux CLI](https://fluxcd.io/flux/cmd/flux_push_artifact/#flux-push-artifact) and tell Flux to reconcile your sources that are stored in OCI Artifacts, and Flux will do that for you. 🕺🏻

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From then on, the Flux community worked hard and brought this feature with [Flux v0.32](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/releases/tag/v0.32.0). So with that, you can store and distribute various sources such as Kubernetes manifests, Kustomize overlays, and Terraform modules as OCI (Open Container Initiative) artifacts with [Flux CLI](/flux/cmd/flux_push_artifact/#flux-push-artifact) and tell Flux to reconcile your sources that are stored in OCI Artifacts, and Flux will do that for you. 🕺🏻
```

But this only covered the first stage of the entire implementation. There is more than that. ☝️

> One of the most exciting features of this RCF is the [verification of artifacts](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/tree/main/rfcs/0003-kubernetes-oci#verify-artifacts). But why, what is it, is it really necessary or just a hype thing? This is a long topic that we need to discuss, though, but in its simplest form, suppose you keep your sources that you want Flux to reconcile as an OCI Work, and you push them into one of your favorite OCI logbooks and tell Flux to reconcile them, and Flux does it. But how can you be one hundred percent sure that the resources that Flux reconciles are the same as the resources that you send to the OCI registry? This is where the verification of artifacts comes into play. But, how can we do that and that's another question? 🤔

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One of the most exciting features of this RFC is the [verification of artifacts](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/tree/main/rfcs/0003-kubernetes-oci#verify-artifacts). But why, what is it, is it really necessary or just a hype thing? This is a long topic that we need to discuss, though, but in its simplest form, suppose you keep your sources that you want Flux to reconcile as an OCI Work, and you push them into one of your favorite OCI logbooks and tell Flux to reconcile them, and Flux does it. But how can you be one hundred percent sure that the resources that Flux reconciles are the same as the resources that you send to the OCI registry? This is where the verification of artifacts comes into play. But, how can we do that and that's another question? 🤔
```

> Thanks to the [Sigstore](https://www.sigstore.dev) community, they provide a set of services and tools that can make that signing and verification process easier for everyone. One of the tools that they provide is [cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/overview) which is a tool for container signing, verification, and storage in an OCI registry and this is the tool we will benefit from to help people to verify the authenticity of the OCI Artifacts in Flux and I'm super excited to announce that starting with [v0.35](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/releases/tag/v0.35.0), Flux comes with support for verifying OCI artifacts signed with Sigstore Cosign. Of course, this features takes its place it the official documentation of Flux, you can reach out to it from [here](https://fluxcd.io/flux/cheatsheets/oci-artifacts/#signing-and-verification).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to the [Sigstore](https://www.sigstore.dev) community, they provide a set of services and tools that can make that signing and verification process easier for everyone. One of the tools that they provide is [cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/overview) which is a tool for container signing, verification, and storage in an OCI registry and this is the tool we will benefit from to help people to verify the authenticity of the OCI Artifacts in Flux and I'm super excited to announce that starting with [v0.35](https://github.com/fluxcd/flux2/releases/tag/v0.35.0), Flux comes with support for verifying OCI artifacts signed with Sigstore Cosign. Of course, this features takes its place it the official documentation of Flux, you can reach out to it from [here](flux/cheatsheets/oci-artifacts/#signing-and-verification).
```

The talk is enough ! Let's jump right into the details of how we can actually use it.

Today, we'll be deploying [Kyverno](https://kyverno.io) project by storing its manifests in OCI registry packaged as an OCI Artifacts, thanks to _Flux CLI_, then we are going to sign it with _cosign_ tool and configure Flux to verify the artifacts’ signatures before they are downloaded and reconciled.

We should have three things to complete this demo;

* _cosign_ CLI
  * <https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation/>
* A Kubernetes cluster
  * <https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/#installation-and-usage>
* _Flux_ CLI
  * <https://fluxcd.io/flux/cmd/>

Let's start by creating a simple Kubernetes cluster:

```shell
kind create cluster
```

> Let's install Flux on it, and I'll not go into the details of the installation process, you might use the [installation page](https://fluxcd.io/flux/installation/) of Flux to get more details about it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's install Flux on it, and I'll not go into the details of the installation process, you might use the [installation page](/flux/installation/) of Flux to get more details about it.
```

  --repository=flux-gotk \
  --branch=main \
  --path=./clusters/my-cluster \
  --personal
```

> ⚠️ Note: Don’t forget to change the values with your own details!

Make sure that Flux is up and running:

```shell
$ flux check
► checking prerequisites
✔ Kubernetes 1.25.2 >=1.20.6-0
► checking controllers
✔ helm-controller: deployment ready
► ghcr.io/fluxcd/helm-controller:v0.25.0
✔ kustomize-controller: deployment ready
► ghcr.io/fluxcd/kustomize-controller:v0.29.0
✔ notification-controller: deployment ready
► ghcr.io/fluxcd/notification-controller:v0.27.0
✔ source-controller: deployment ready
► ghcr.io/fluxcd/source-controller:v0.30.0
► checking crds
✔ alerts.notification.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
✔ buckets.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
✔ gitrepositories.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
✔ helmcharts.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
✔ helmreleases.helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2beta1
✔ helmrepositories.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
✔ kustomizations.kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
✔ ocirepositories.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
✔ providers.notification.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
✔ receivers.notification.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
✔ all checks passed
```

> To be able to push Kyverno manifets into OCI registry, we should clone the Kyverno project first becaut it stores its manifests in a a file called [./config/install.yaml](https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno/blob/main/config/install.yaml):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be able to push Kyverno manifets into OCI registry, we should clone the Kyverno project first because it stores its manifests in a a file called [./config/install.yaml](https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno/blob/main/config/install.yaml):
```

```shell  
git clone --depth=0 https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno.git
cd kyverno
```

Let's push the manifest into OCI registry with _Flux CLI_:

```shell
mkdir -p ./manifests
cp ./config/install.yaml ./manifests
$ flux push artifact oci://ttl.sh/$GITHUB_USER/manifests/kyverno:$(git tag --points-at HEAD) \

> 	--path="./manifests" \
> 	--source="$(git config --get remote.origin.url)" \
> 	--revision="$(git tag --points-at HEAD)/$(git rev-parse HEAD)"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --path="./manifests" \
  --source="$(git config --get remote.origin.url)" \
  --revision="$(git tag --points-at HEAD)/$(git rev-parse HEAD)"
```

Replace with spaces.

```shell
$ flux get sources oci
NAME    REVISION                                                                SUSPENDED READY MESSAGE
kyverno latest/478f1a6cff929c6dc8ff18aa134ae5cec232db77286ec65eb745499bffe92975 False     True  stored artifact for digest 'latest/478f1a6cff929c6dc8ff18aa134ae5cec232db77286ec65eb745499bffe92975'
```

If you see the status of the _OCIRepository_ is `True`, it means that Flux has successfully verified the signature of the container image. Because Flux adds a condition with the following attributes to the OCIRepository’s `.status.conditions`:

* type: SourceVerified
* status: "True"
* reason: Succeeded

If the verification fails, Flux will set the `SourceVerified` status to `False` and will not fetch the artifact contents from the registry. If you see the status of the _Kustomization_ is `True`, it means that Flux has successfully applied the manifests that are stored in the container image.

Lets check the status of the _Kyverno_ deployment:

```shell
$ kubectl get pods --namespace kyverno
NAME                      READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
kyverno-7dcf5895c-chgrp   1/1     Running   0          28m
```

## Furthermore

> As we can store _Helm Charts_ in OCI registries with the release of Helm v3.8.0 which means that we can also sign them with _cosign_ and verify them with Flux. The Flux community is already working on it and want to add support for verifying the Helm charts stored in OCI registries as OCI Artifacts in the next releases of Flux. You can follow the progress of this feature in the following issue: [fluxcd/source-controller#914](https://github.com/fluxcd/source-controller/issues/914). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we can store _Helm Charts_ in OCI registries with the release of Helm v3.8.0 which means that we can also sign them with _cosign_ and verify them with Flux. The Flux community is already working on it and want to add support for verifying the Helm charts stored in OCI registries as OCI Artifacts in the next releases of Flux. You can follow the progress of this feature in the following issue: [fluxcd/source-controller#914](https://github.com/fluxcd/source-controller/issues/914).
```

Today, we'll be deploying [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/docs/) project by storing its manifests in OCI registry packaged as an OCI Artifacts, thanks to _Flux CLI_, then we are going to sign it with _cosign_ tool and configure Flux to verify the artifacts’ signatures before they are downloaded and reconciled.

We should have three things to complete this demo;

* _cosign_ CLI
  * <https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/installation/>
* A Kubernetes cluster
  * <https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/#installation-and-usage>
* _Flux_ CLI
  * <https://fluxcd.io/flux/cmd/>

Let's start by creating a simple Kubernetes cluster:

```shell
kind create cluster
```

Let's install Flux on it, and I'll not go into the details of the installation process, you might use the [installation page](/flux/installation/) of Flux to get more details about it.

```shell
export GITHUB_USER=developer-guy
export GITHUB_TOKEN=$GITHUB_TOKEN

flux bootstrap github \
  --owner=$GITHUB_USER \
  --repository=flux-gotk \
  --branch=main \
  --path=./clusters/my-cluster \
  --personal
```

> ⚠️ Note: Don’t forget to change the values with your own details!

> Make sure that Flux is up and running:

Reviewer 2: `flux bootstrap` already does this check, we can remove this from here.

```shell
$ flux check
► checking prerequisites
✔ Kubernetes 1.25.2 >=1.20.6-0
► checking controllers
✔ helm-controller: deployment ready
► ghcr.io/fluxcd/helm-controller:v0.25.0
✔ kustomize-controller: deployment ready
► ghcr.io/fluxcd/kustomize-controller:v0.29.0
✔ notification-controller: deployment ready
► ghcr.io/fluxcd/notification-controller:v0.27.0
✔ source-controller: deployment ready
► ghcr.io/fluxcd/source-controller:v0.30.0
► checking crds
✔ alerts.notification.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
✔ buckets.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
✔ gitrepositories.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
✔ helmcharts.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
✔ helmreleases.helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2beta1
✔ helmrepositories.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
✔ kustomizations.kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
✔ ocirepositories.source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
✔ providers.notification.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
✔ receivers.notification.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta1
✔ all checks passed
```

> To be able to push cert-manager manifets into OCI registry, we should clone the YAML manifest of the cert-manager project first because it stores its manifests in a a file called [cert-manager.yaml](https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/kubectl/):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First we download the cert-manager install manifests from GitHub:
```

```shell
curl -sSLO https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.9.1/cert-manager.yaml
```

> <https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/tag/v1.9.1>

> Let's push the manifest into OCI registry with _Flux CLI_:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next we push the manifests to GitHub container registry with _Flux CLI_:
```

```shell
mkdir -p ./manifests
cp cert-manager.yaml ./manifests
$ flux push artifact oci://ghcr.io/$GITHUB_USER/manifests/cert-manager:v1.9.1 \
  --path="./manifests" \
  --source="https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager.git" \
  --revision="4486c01f726f17d2790a8a563ae6bc6e98465505"
► pushing artifact to ghcr.io/developer-guy/manifests/cert-manager:v1.9.1
✔ artifact successfully pushed to ghcr.io/developer-guy/manifests/cert-manager@sha256:8355bd0a51cae9eee716fb76b24b8f404baacc4af05097614321f961413c786a
```

> Before actually signing the container image, we should create a set of key pairs, a public and private one:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before signing the OCI artifact with Cosign, we need to create a set of key pairs, a public and private one:
```

```shell
kubectl -n flux-system create secret generic cosign-pub \
  --from-file=cosign.pub=cosign.pub
```

Now, let's sign it:

```shell
$ cosign sign --key cosign.key ghcr.io/$GITHUB_USER/manifests/cert-manager:v1.9.1
Enter password for private key:
Pushing signature to: ghcr.io/developer-guy/manifests/cert-manager
```

As we stick into the GitOps practices, we should create a file that contains the _OCIRepository_ resource, then commit and push those changes into the upstream repository that Flux watches for changes:

```shell
git clone git@github.com:developer-guy/flux-gotk.git
cd flux-gotk
```

To pull artifacts in Kubernetes clusters, Flux can authenticate to container registries using image pull secrets or IAM role bindings to the source-controller service account.

```shell
$ flux create secret oci ghcr-auth \
  --url=ghcr.io \
  --username=${GITHUB_USER} \
  --password=${GITHUB_TOKEN}
► oci secret 'ghcr-auth' created in 'flux-system' namespace
```

Let's create these two files, one is for _OCIRepository_ that is pointing to our OCI Artifact, the other is for _Kustomization_ that is pointing to the _OCIRepository_:

> ```shell
> cat << EOF | tee ./clusters/my-cluster/cert-manager-ocirepository.yaml
> apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
> kind: OCIRepository
> metadata:
>   name: cert-manager
>   namespace: flux-system
> spec:
>   interval: 5m
>   url: oci://ghcr.io/${GITHUB_USER}/manifests/cert-manager
>   ref:
>     semver: "*"
>   secretRef:
>     name: ghcr-auth
>   verify:
>     provider: cosign
>     secretRef:
>       name: cosign-pub
> EOF
> 
> cat << EOF | tee ./clusters/my-cluster/cert-manager-kustomization.yaml
> apiVersion: kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
> kind: Kustomization
> metadata:
>   name: cert-manager
>   namespace: flux-system
> spec:
>   interval: 10m
>   targetNamespace: cert-manager
>   sourceRef:
>     kind: OCIRepository
>     name: cert-manager
>   path: "."
>   prune: true
> EOF
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```shell
cat << EOF | tee ./clusters/my-cluster/cert-manager-sync.yaml
apiVersion: source.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
kind: OCIRepository
metadata:
  name: cert-manager
  namespace: flux-system
spec:
  interval: 5m
  url: oci://ghcr.io/${GITHUB_USER}/manifests/cert-manager
  ref:
    semver: "*"
  secretRef:
    name: ghcr-auth
  verify:
    provider: cosign
    secretRef:
      name: cosign-pub
---
apiVersion: kustomize.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v1beta2
kind: Kustomization
metadata:
  name: cert-manager
  namespace: flux-system
spec:
  interval: 1h
  timeout: 5m
  sourceRef:
    kind: OCIRepository
    name: cert-manager
  path: "."
  prune: true
  wait: true
EOF
```
```
